README.md, before:

Fauxhai
=======
Fauxhai is a gem for mocking out [ohai](https://github.com/opscode/ohai) data in your chef testing. Fauxhai is community supported, so we need **your help** to populate our dataset. Here's an example for testing my "awesome_cookbook" on Ubuntu:

Fauxhai finally stable! Pull Requests are still welcome though :)

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: '12.04')
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

Alternatively, you can pull "real" ohai data from an existing server:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.fetch(host: 'server01.example.com')
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

Fauxhai supports [ChefSpec](https://github.com/acrmp/chefspec) and [rspec-chef](https://github.com/calavera/rspec-chef). In order to prevent polluting the README, only ChefSpec examples will be provided. However, there is an extensive README for each testing framework in the [examples](https://github.com/customink/fauxhai/tree/master/examples) directory.

Important Note
--------------
Fauxhai ships with a command line tool - `fauxhai`. This is **not** the same as Fauxhai.mock. Running `fauxhai` on a machine effectively runs `ohai`, but then sanitizes the data, removing/replacing things like:

- users
- ssh keys
- usernames in paths
- sensitive system information

`fauxhai` should only be used by developers wishing to submit a new json file.

Usage
-----
Fauxhai provides a bunch of default attributes so that you don't need to mock out your entire infastructure to write a simple test. That being said, not all configurations will suit your needs. Because of that, Fauxhai provides two ways to configure your mocks:

### Overriding
`Fauxhai.mock` will also accept a block with override attributes that are merged with all the default attributes. For example, the default Ubutnu 12.04 mock uses `Ruby 1.9.3`. Maybe your system is using `ree`, and you want to verify that the cookbooks work with that data as well:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: '12.04') do |node|
      node['languages']['ruby']['version'] = 'ree'
    end
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

The `node` block variable allows you to set any Ohai attribute on the mock that you want. This provides an easy way to manage your environments. If you find that you are overridding attributes like OS or platform, you should see the section on Contributing.

### Fetching
Alternatively, if you do not want to mock the data, Fauxhai provides a `fetch` mechanism for collecting "real" ohai data from a remote server or local file. Maybe you want to test against the fully-replicated environment for a front-facing server in your pool. Just pass in the `url` option instead of a `platform`:

The `fetch` method supports all the same options as the Net-SSH command, such as `:user`, `:password`, `:key_file`, etc.

The `fetch` method will cache the JSON file in a temporary path on your local machine. Similar to gems like VCR, this allows fauxhai to use the cached copy, making your test suite run faster. You can optionally force a cache miss by passing the `:force_cache_miss => true` option to the `fetch` initializer. **Because this is real data, there may be a security concern. Secure your laptop accordingly.**

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.fetch(host: 'server01.example.com')
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

This will ssh into the machine (you must have authorization to run `sudo ohai` on that machine), download a copy of the ohai output, and optionally cache that data inside the test directory (speeding up future tests).

### Overriding + Fetching
As you might expect, you can combine overriding and fetching like so:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.fetch(host: 'server01.example.com') do |node|
      node['languages']['ruby']['version'] = 'ree'
    end
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

### Fixturing
If you want to use fauxhai as "fixture" data, you can store real JSON in your project and use the `:path` option:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(path: 'fixtures/my_node.json')
  end
end
```

### Overriding + Fixturing
You can also change specific attributes in your fixture:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(path: 'fixtures/my_node.json') do |node|
      node['languages']['ruby']['version'] = 'ree'
    end
  end
end
```

Testing Multiple Versions
-------------------------
It's a common use case to test multiple version of the same operating system. Here's a simple example to get your started. This is more rspec-related that fauxhai related, but here ya go:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  ['12.04', '11.06', '10.04'].each do |version|
    context "on Ubuntu #{version}" do
      before do
        Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: version)
      end

      it 'should install awesome' do
        @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
        @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
      end
    end
  end
end
```

Contributing
------------
Fauxhai is community-maintained and updated. Aside from the initial files, all of the ohai system mocks have been created by the community. If you have a system that you think would benefit the community, here's how you get it into [fauxhai](https://github.com/customink/fauxhai):

1. Build a system to your liking (on a virtual machine, for example)
2. Install chef, ohai, and fauxhai
3. Run the following at the command line:

        sudo fauxhai > /tmp/fauxhai.json

4. This will create a file `/tmp/fauxhai.json`
5. Copy the contents of this file to your local development machine (using scp or sftp, for example)
6. Clone and `bundle` this repo:

        git clone git@github.com:customink/fauxhai.git
        cd fauxhai
        bundle

7. Create a new branch named `add_[platform]_[version]` (e.g. `add_ubuntu_12_04`) without dashes and dots replaced with underscores. Be sure to use the official version number, not a package name (e.g. '12_04', not 'precise') if avaliable:

        Ubuntu Precise, 12.04       add_ubuntu_12_04
        Ubuntu Lucid, 11.5          add_ubuntu_11_5
        OSX Lion, 10.7.4            add_osx_10_7_4
        Windows XP                  add_windows_xp

    **Q:** Is there a reason for this super-specific naming convention?

    **A:** No, but it helps in tracking problems and analyzing pull requests. Ultimately it just ensures your pull request is merged as quickly as possible.

8. Create a new json file in `lib/fauxhai/platforms/[os]/[version].json` (e.g. `lib/fauxhai/platforms/ubuntu/12.04.json`)
9. Copy-paste the contents of the file from `Step 4` into this file and save
10. Verify the installation was successful by doing the following:

        irb -rubygems -rfauxhai
        Fauxhai.mock('platform: [os], version:  [version]') # e.g. Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: '12.04')

    As long as that does not throw an error, you're good to go!

11. Submit a pull request on github

**Note:** I do *not* need to release a new version of Fauxhai for your changes to be pulled and used. Unless you are updating an existing platform, Fauxhai will automatically pull new versions from GitHub via HTTP automatically and cache them.

Commit message:

Clarify contribution instructions
Since the previous "better than it was before..." PR of mine showed the usage of sed, and Seth pointed out w/o merge that "Sed doesn't exist on Windows", I have gone through hoops to:

1. Close the other PR since it was made via "Edit" on GH
2. Change the *EXISTING UNIX/Linux-specific instructions mentioning sudo* (*AHEM*) to show how to do things on both Windows and UNIX/Linux.
3. Kept sed out of the information and suggested people examine the JSON file however they see fit (but to examine it).

Hopefully this will satiate everyone's extremely stringent requirements for utmost precision community contributions to a README prior to merge, in order to save others the 2 hours I wasted chasing this down.

:|

README.md, after:

Fauxhai
=======
Fauxhai is a gem for mocking out [ohai](https://github.com/opscode/ohai) data in your chef testing. Fauxhai is community supported, so we need **your help** to populate our dataset. Here's an example for testing my "awesome_cookbook" on Ubuntu:

Fauxhai finally stable! Pull Requests are still welcome though :)

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: '12.04')
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

Alternatively, you can pull "real" ohai data from an existing server:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.fetch(host: 'server01.example.com')
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

Fauxhai supports [ChefSpec](https://github.com/acrmp/chefspec) and [rspec-chef](https://github.com/calavera/rspec-chef). In order to prevent polluting the README, only ChefSpec examples will be provided. However, there is an extensive README for each testing framework in the [examples](https://github.com/customink/fauxhai/tree/master/examples) directory.

Important Note
--------------
Fauxhai ships with a command line tool - `fauxhai`. This is **not** the same as Fauxhai.mock. Running `fauxhai` on a machine effectively runs `ohai`, but then sanitizes the data, removing/replacing things like:

- users
- ssh keys
- usernames in paths
- sensitive system information

`fauxhai` should only be used by developers wishing to submit a new json file.

Usage
-----
Fauxhai provides a bunch of default attributes so that you don't need to mock out your entire infastructure to write a simple test. That being said, not all configurations will suit your needs. Because of that, Fauxhai provides two ways to configure your mocks:

### Overriding
`Fauxhai.mock` will also accept a block with override attributes that are merged with all the default attributes. For example, the default Ubutnu 12.04 mock uses `Ruby 1.9.3`. Maybe your system is using `ree`, and you want to verify that the cookbooks work with that data as well:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: '12.04') do |node|
      node['languages']['ruby']['version'] = 'ree'
    end
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

The `node` block variable allows you to set any Ohai attribute on the mock that you want. This provides an easy way to manage your environments. If you find that you are overridding attributes like OS or platform, you should see the section on Contributing.

### Fetching
Alternatively, if you do not want to mock the data, Fauxhai provides a `fetch` mechanism for collecting "real" ohai data from a remote server or local file. Maybe you want to test against the fully-replicated environment for a front-facing server in your pool. Just pass in the `url` option instead of a `platform`:

The `fetch` method supports all the same options as the Net-SSH command, such as `:user`, `:password`, `:key_file`, etc.

The `fetch` method will cache the JSON file in a temporary path on your local machine. Similar to gems like VCR, this allows fauxhai to use the cached copy, making your test suite run faster. You can optionally force a cache miss by passing the `:force_cache_miss => true` option to the `fetch` initializer. **Because this is real data, there may be a security concern. Secure your laptop accordingly.**

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.fetch(host: 'server01.example.com')
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

This will ssh into the machine (you must have authorization to run `sudo ohai` on that machine), download a copy of the ohai output, and optionally cache that data inside the test directory (speeding up future tests).

### Overriding + Fetching
As you might expect, you can combine overriding and fetching like so:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.fetch(host: 'server01.example.com') do |node|
      node['languages']['ruby']['version'] = 'ree'
    end
  end

  it 'should install awesome' do
    @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
    @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
  end
end
```

### Fixturing
If you want to use fauxhai as "fixture" data, you can store real JSON in your project and use the `:path` option:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(path: 'fixtures/my_node.json')
  end
end
```

### Overriding + Fixturing
You can also change specific attributes in your fixture:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  before do
    Fauxhai.mock(path: 'fixtures/my_node.json') do |node|
      node['languages']['ruby']['version'] = 'ree'
    end
  end
end
```

Testing Multiple Versions
-------------------------
It's a common use case to test multiple version of the same operating system. Here's a simple example to get your started. This is more rspec-related that fauxhai related, but here ya go:

```ruby
require 'chefspec'

describe 'awesome_cookbook::default' do
  ['12.04', '11.06', '10.04'].each do |version|
    context "on Ubuntu #{version}" do
      before do
        Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: version)
      end

      it 'should install awesome' do
        @runner = ChefSpec::ChefRunner.new.converge('tmpreaper::default')
        @runner.should install_package 'awesome'
      end
    end
  end
end
```

Contributing
------------
Fauxhai is community-maintained and updated. Aside from the initial files, all of the ohai system mocks have been created by the community. If you have a system that you think would benefit the community, here's how you get it into [fauxhai](https://github.com/customink/fauxhai):

1. Build a system to your liking (on a virtual machine, for example)
2. Install chef, ohai, and fauxhai
3. Run the following at the command line:

        UNIX/Linux:  sudo fauxhai > /tmp/fauxhai.json

        Windows:     fauxhai > C:\Someplace\fauxhai.json

4. This will create a file in JSON format at the path indicated. You should examine it (via whatever means you choose) to ensure that it looks like valid JSON.
5. Copy the contents of this file to your local development machine (using scp or sftp, for example)
6. Clone and `bundle` this repo:

        git clone git@github.com:customink/fauxhai.git
        cd fauxhai
        bundle

7. Create a new branch named `add_[platform]_[version]` (e.g. `add_ubuntu_12_04`) without dashes and dots replaced with underscores. Be sure to use the official version number, not a package name (e.g. '12_04', not 'precise') if avaliable:

        Ubuntu Precise, 12.04       add_ubuntu_12_04
        Ubuntu Lucid, 11.5          add_ubuntu_11_5
        OSX Lion, 10.7.4            add_osx_10_7_4
        Windows XP                  add_windows_xp

    **Q:** Is there a reason for this super-specific naming convention?

    **A:** No, but it helps in tracking problems and analyzing pull requests. Ultimately it just ensures your pull request is merged as quickly as possible.

8. Create a new json file in `lib/fauxhai/platforms/[os]/[version].json` (e.g. `lib/fauxhai/platforms/ubuntu/12.04.json`)
9. Copy-paste the contents of the file from `Step 4` into this file and save
10. Verify the installation was successful by doing the following:

        irb -rubygems -rfauxhai
        Fauxhai.mock('platform: [os], version:  [version]') # e.g. Fauxhai.mock(platform: 'ubuntu', version: '12.04')

    As long as that does not throw an error, you're good to go!

11. Submit a pull request on github

**Note:** I do *not* need to release a new version of Fauxhai for your changes to be pulled and used. Unless you are updating an existing platform, Fauxhai will automatically pull new versions from GitHub via HTTP automatically and cache them.
